# autodoc
The script `autodoc-gen.sh`  is designed to automatically generate documentation for your packages using the Sphinx documentation generator.

# How is this helpful?
One of the main advantages of using `autodoc` in conjunction with `Sphinx` is that it automatically generates ReStructured Text (.rst) files in a folder-wise manner. This means that the generated .rst files are organized in a structured folder hierarchy, which can greatly simplify the documentation website with each module having its toctree.

Another advantage of using `autodoc` is that it automatically removes unwanted headings and text such as Submodules, Subpackages, module, package and etc. Additionally `autodoc` displays the names of modules, submodules, and functions in a concise and readable format. For instance, when documenting a function like `solve` from the `solver.py` module within the `neuro` package, `Sphinx` would display it as `neuro.solver.solve`, whereas `autodoc` would only show `solve`. This reduction of unnecessary clutter helps improve the overall readability and aesthetics of the documentation.

# Can't we achieve this by just using Sphinx?
Yes, we can do it with Sphinx but we need to modify each .rst file generated by Sphinx. This process is time-consuming and tedious, often taking hours or even days to modify each .rst file individually for large packages. Consequently, investing such a substantial amount of time in manual editing becomes inefficient and can be seen as a waste of valuable resources.

# How to create documetation sites using `autodoc`?
> **Note**
> Add `__init__.py` files in each and every folder which you need to document. Additionally add `__init__.py` file inside the project. For example if `neuro` is the project folder then add `neuro/__init__.py`

**Step 1:**
Create `docs` directory inside the project folder where the source code is located.
```bash
mkdir docs
```

**Step 2:**
Clone the repository.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/neuroneural/autodoc.git
```

**Step 3:**
Run the script.
```bash
sh autodoc-gen.sh
```
Asks for User input. Enter Project name, Author name etc.

**Step 4:**
Update `index.rst`
Add all the module names(If you have added `__init__.py` file inside the project folder then just add project name)
```python
.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:
   
   neuro
```

Update `conf.py`
a) Add this at the top of `conf.py`.
```python
import os
import sys
                
sys.path.insert(0,os.path.abspath("../../"))
sys.path.insert(0,os.path.abspath("../"))
```
b) Add extentions
```python
extensions = [
    "sphinx.ext.autodoc",
    "sphinx.ext.viewcode", # Remove if you don't want to display your code in documentation.
    "sphinx.ext.todo",
    "sphinx.ext.coverage",
    "sphinx.ext.mathjax",
    "sphinx.ext.githubpages",
    "sphinx.ext.napoleon",
    "sphinx.ext.autosummary",
    "sphinx.ext.inheritance_diagram",
    "sphinx.ext.intersphinx",
    "sphinx.ext.ifconfig",
    "sphinx_copybutton",
]
```
c) Customise your theme
```python
html_theme = 'sphinx_rtd_theme'
```

**Step 5:**
Build html files
```bash
make clean html
```

**Step 6:**
Open `index.html` file inside `_build/html` to access the website.
